---
description: 鸽子堂堂复活（
---

# （2024年更新）番外：你的tw卡组到底有多少点力？

上一版（2018版）鸽子攻略的平均点力计算似乎有些失误（感谢群友指出），这次仔细计算了一下。

## 一些发现

### 标准卡组点力

根据附录的卡表，如果双方进全战之后不特意推进ws：

| AP  | 数量 | 总点力 |
| --- | -- | --- |
| 2cc | 6  |     |
| 2op | 3  | 6   |
| 3op | 5  | 15  |
| 4op | 12 | 48  |
| 5op | 4  | 20  |
|     | 30 | 89  |

| CP  | 数量 | 总点力 |
| --- | -- | --- |
| 2cc | 5  |     |
| 2op | 2  | 4   |
| 3op | 6  | 18  |
| 4op | 9  | 36  |
| 5op | 4  | 20  |
|     | 26 | 78  |

如果假设每回合可以扔掉1张cc（这是合理的假设），则AP的平均点力为3.58，CP的平均点力为3.63。回转计算指出双方在20回合局的总有效op数几乎完全一致。

注意CP的卡长比AP短一些——但其实CP只比AP需要多撕2轮卡（撕掉CC是不占轮次的，弱智势力能撕掉的cc比较少）

### 一些经常会考虑撕掉的低点力卡

* 截获无线电：这卡是可移除的2cc，但撕掉它首先需要俄国佬给面子，其次经常需要特意掏出2op甚至3op（没有sud的时候激活）。撕掉此卡可以使得CP平均点力上升到3.71（回转计算可以得到，在20回合的长局中CP一共因此赚了3op）——所以特意撕掉无线电是赚的，尽管去撕吧（
* HL三件套（HL，霍夫曼，U艇）：这三张卡作为一个522组合平均op只有3，撕掉之后一共抬5点ws，对高ws局（沙皇退位）是必要的，同时如果想在西线皇帝攻势也需要开HL，所以是十分值得撕掉的套件。撕掉三件套可以把CP的平均OP进一步抬高到3.83（回转计算指出CP赚了4op）——但注意开三件套一共亏了三个轮次，可能压力较大。
* 把三件套撕了以后CP的平均点力很高，回转又快，因此理论上你甚至可以弃掉3op的CC来进一步提高平均op（鸽子没有仔细算，可能能到每动4op）
* 很不幸AP没有什么可撕掉的低点力卡...本质是AP的低点力事件都依赖于CP的事件（美国佬 公海舰队什么的）——不过AP的总op轮次也因此更多，抓住机会在中局打死CP吧（

## 附录：计算使用的卡组

以下是默认双方进全战之后不特意推进ws时的卡组。

备注：

* 经过多年的群内推演，现在默认CP在进lw的时候保留拉特瑙不打出是几乎严格优的（除非极为特殊的情况），正常来说CP lw也很难ttc，因此CP进lw视为事件了处决地和齐柏林。
* 撕2点卡毋庸置疑能提高平均点力（因为平均点力至少是3.5，而你的全战卡组通常能回转至少四次，不撕的话你就得见到这张卡4次），而且常见的2点增援（英联邦，德国c和俄国c）起码有点用（比起11集团军这种白板卡），因此默认都撕了。
* 截获无线电这卡十分甚至九分的难撕，在这个卡组里暂时列为撕不掉。

### AP

<table><thead><tr><th width="77">卡号</th><th width="67">点力</th><th width="66">状态</th><th width="474">内容</th><th>保留</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>8</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Russian Reinforcements - 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - AUS Corps, CND Corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>23</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Cloak and Dagger - Allied player may examine all cards in the CP player's hand and then conduct Operations using this card.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>32</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Russian Reinforcements - 12th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>37</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Independent Air Force - Cancel or prevent Rathenau Event bonus GE RP.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Pleve - A RU attack or defense adds a +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Withdrawal - Defending units negate one required Corps step loss and instead retreat 1 space. This also cancels any retreat caused by losing the combat. If not Corps step(s) lost, an Army step loss may be negated.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Phosgene Gas - A FR attack adds +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Russian Reinforcements - 11th Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>French Reinforcements - 10th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Russian Reinforcements - 9th Army, 10th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - 4th Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Italian Reinforcements - May only be played after ITALY joins the Allies. 5th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>French Reinforcements - 7th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Russian Reinforcements - 6th Army, 7th Army, 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>26</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Lusitania - May only be played after "Blockade" and before "Zimmermann Telegram". Subtract 1 VP.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>27</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Great Retreat - All RU units attacked this turn may retreat before combat. This must be announced before the die is rolled for each combat. No combat takes place. The RU unit(s) must retreat 1 space. Full strength CP units may advance.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>34</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - 3rd Army, 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>42</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - 5th Army, 1 corps, PT Corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>44</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Greece - Greece joins the Allies.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - 2nd Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Blockade - Subtract 1 VP during the War Status Phase of each Winter turn.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Rape of Belgium - May only be played if CP played "Guns of August". Subtract 1VP.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>British Reinforcements - 1st Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Italy - Italy joins the Allies. Add 1 VP during the War Status Phase of each turn if unplayed after Allied War Commitment Level is Total War.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>33</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Grand Fleet - If played in the Allied Action Round immediately following the "High Seas Fleet", cancel that card.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>38</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>USA Reinforcements - May only be played after "Over There". 1 corps.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>40</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>14 Points - May only be played after "Zimmermann Telegram". Only the Allied player may offer Peace Terms for the rest of the game. Subtract 1 VP.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Putnik - May only be played in 1914 and 1915. A SB attack or defense adds a +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Severe Weather - Defending units in a mountain space in Fall/Winter or a swamp space in Spring/Fall get a +2 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Hurricane Barrage - A BR attack adds a +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Air Superiority - A BR or FR attack adds +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>36</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Mine Attack - A BR attack vs. an entrenched Defender adds a +1 drm. May only be used in one Combat per turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>39</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>They Shall Not Pass - Cancels any retreat for losing a combat if defending in a FR fort space.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Moltke - May only be played in August or September 1914. CP Activation in Belgium or France costs 1 OPS per unit (not space) until the Falkenhayn card is played.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Entrench - Place a Level 1 Trench in any space occupied by a supplied friendly Army. Both players may now Entrench.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>41</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Arab Northern Army (BR Reinforcements) - May only be played if Turkey is at war. Place the British ANA Corps in the Arabia space.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>43</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>USA Reinforcements - May only be played after "Over There". 1st Army, 2 corps.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>45</td><td>3</td><td>CC*</td><td>Kerensky Offensive - May only be played after "Fall of Tsar" and before the "Bolshevik Revolution". Allied player conducts Operations using this card and one RU attack vs. a space with any AH, BU or TU units adds a +2 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>28</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Landships - Allows play of "Royal Tank Corps".</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Yudenitch (RU Reinforcements) - Place the Russian CAU Army in any supplied space in Russia on the Near East map.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Salonika - May SR up to 3 BR/FR Corps (from the map and/or Reserve) to Salonika. This card counts as a SR card play.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>MEF (BR Reinforcements) - May only be played if Turkey is at war and before "Salonika". Place the MEF Army at any MEF space. See 9.5.3.5.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>35</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Yanks and Tanks - Allied player conducts Operations using this card and all Combats involving a US unit during this Action Round get a +2 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>46</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Brusilov Offensive - Allied player conducts Operations using this card and adds a +1 drm to ALL RU attacks this Action Round. Also, for 1 RU attack vs. only non-GE CP units cancel all trench effects.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>47</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>USA Reinforcements - May only be played after "Over There". 2nd Army, 1 corps.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>49</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Sinai Pipeline - Cancels Sinai -3 drm for Allied units only. Summer turn desert effects remain. Allows play of "Allenby".</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>50</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Allenby (BR Reinforcements) - May only be played after "Sinai Pipeline". Place the British NE Army in Alexandria.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>51</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Everyone Into Battle - May only be played after at least one of the following has occurred: "Blucher," "Michel" or "Peace Offensive". Allied units in Italy, France and Belgium are considered one nationality for Activation for the rest of this turn (only).</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>52</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Convoy - May only be played after "U-Boats Unleashed". Cancels effects of that card. Subtract 1VP.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>48</td><td>4</td><td>CC</td><td>Royal Tank Corps - May only be played after "Landships". Cancels trench column shifts for a BR attack against a clear space in France/Belgium. May only be used in 1 Combat per turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Romania - May not be played after "Fall of the Tsar". Romania joins the Allies.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>53</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Army of the Orient (FR Reinforcements) - Place the French Orient Army in the Salonika space if Allied controlled, subject to stacking limits.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>54</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Zimmermann Telegram - May only be played if U.S. entry marker is in the "Zimmerman Telegram Allowed" box. Subtract 1 VP. US joins the Allies. Allows play of "Over There" card on any following turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>55</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Over There - May only be played after "Zimmerman Telegram". Allows play of "US Reinforcements" on any following turns. ALL Allied RP cards played now include 1 US RP.</td><td>1</td></tr></tbody></table>

### CP

<table><thead><tr><th width="78"># </th><th width="64">Op</th><th width="70">状态</th><th width="484">内容</th><th>保留？</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>5</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Landwehr - CP player receives 2 extra RPs to immediately flip reduced strength units to their full side. They may not be spent to replace eliminated units.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Oberost - German units may now attack spaces containing RU forts. (They may always besiege such spaces.)</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Mata Hari - CP player may examine all cards in the Allied player's hand and then conduct Operations using this card.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>11th Army - The GE 11th Army (only) may freely stack with any CP corps and be treated as 1 unit for Activation purposes.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>38</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>39</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Chlorine Gas - A GE attack adds +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Liman Von Sanders - A TU attack or defense adds a +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Flamethrowers - A GE attack adds +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>35</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Mustard Gas - A GE attack adds a +1 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Guns of August - May only be played in the first Action Round of the August 1914 turn. The Liege fort is destroyed. Place the GE 1st and 2nd Armies in the Liege space. The GE 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Armies are activated for Combat.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Entrench - Place a Level 1 Trench in any space occupied by a supplied friendly Army. Both players may now Entrench.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 9th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>SUD Army - Up to 2 GE corps may stack with any 1 AH unit and be Activated as a single nationality. A different stack may be chosen each Action Round.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Austria - Hungary Reinforcements - 10th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 11th Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 12th Army, 1 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>23</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Austria - Hungary Reinforcements - 11th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>32</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>War in Africa - Permanently remove 1 BR corps from the game or add 1 VP (Allied choice).</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>41</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 14th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>42</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Turkish Reinforcements - YLD Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Reichstag Truce - May not be played after CP War Commitment Level is Total War. Add 1 VP.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 10th Army, 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Falkenhayn - May only be played on Aug/Sep 1914 turns only after the "Moltke" is played or without restriction beginning in Fall 1914. Cancels the effects of "Moltke". Allows play of "Place of Execution"</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Austria - Hungary Reinforcements - 7th Army, 2 corps.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>27</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Zeppelin Raids - Subtract 4 BR RPs (down to 0) during the Replacement Phase of this turn.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>46</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>German Reinforcements - 17th Army, 18th Army.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>26</td><td>4</td><td>CC*</td><td>Place of Execution - May only be played after the "Falkenhayn" and before the "H-L Take Command". An attack vs. FR fort space adds a +2 drm.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>34</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Bulgaria - Bulgaria joins the CP.</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>36</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>U-Boats Unleashed - May only be played after "H-L Take Command". Subtract 1 BR RP during the Repl. Phase of each turn and prevent play of US Reinforcements until "Convoy" is played.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>37</td><td>2</td><td>*</td><td>Hoffman - May only be played after "H-L Take Command". Adds +1 to all future CP Mandated Offensive die rolls.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Von Francois - A GE attack vs. RU units adds a +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Severe Weather - Defending units in a mountain space in Fall/Winter or a swamp space in Spring/Fall get a +2 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Fortified Machine Guns - A GE entrenched defender adds a +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>2</td><td>CC</td><td>Alpenkorps - A GE attack to or from a mountain space adds +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>CC*</td><td>Wireless Intercepts - A GE Flank Attack Attempt vs. a space containing only RU units is automatically successful.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Race to the Sea - CP units may now end movement in Ostend, Calais, and Amiens.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>3</td><td>*</td><td>Libyan Revolt (TU Reinforcements) - (May only be played if there are no Allied units in the Libya space.) Place the SN unit in Libya.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>3</td><td>CC</td><td>Kemal - A TU defender with a combat factor of 1 or more may fire on the Army Table. May only be used in one Combat per turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>40</td><td>3</td><td>CC</td><td>Air Superiority - A GE attack adds +1 drm.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>43</td><td>3</td><td>CC*</td><td>Von Below - Cancels all trench effects for 1 attack against only IT unit(s).</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>44</td><td>3</td><td>CC*</td><td>Von Hutier - Attacker fires first and cancels all trench effects for an attack against RU unit(s).</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>High Seas Fleet - High Seas Fleet sorties. Unless the Allied player plays the "Grand Fleet" as his next action, add 1 VP.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>28</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Tsar Takes Command - May only be played if the Russian Capitulation marker is in the "Tsar Takes Command Allowed" box.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>45</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Treaty of Brest Litovsk - May only be played after "Bolshevik Revolution". RU units may no longer attack. CP units may not attack RU units except TU units may attack on the Near East map. Also see 5.5.2.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>47</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>French Mutiny - Effects of Mandated FR Offensives are reversed. If any FR units not stacked with US units attack on a FR MO turn, add 1 VP.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>48</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Turkish Reinforcements - AoI Army.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>55</td><td>4</td><td>*</td><td>Lloyd George - No BR attacks vs. Level 2 entrenched GE units may be made for the rest of this turn. This effect is canceled by play of MICHEL, BLUCHER, or PEACE OFFENSIVE events.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>49</td><td>4</td><td>CC*</td><td>Michel - May only be played after "H-L Take Command". Cancels all trench effects fro 1 GE attack and adds a + 1 drm for that attack.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>50</td><td>4</td><td>CC*</td><td>Blucher - May only be played after "H-L Take Command". Cancels all trench effects for 1 GE attack.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>51</td><td>4</td><td>CC*</td><td>Peace Offensive - May only be played after "H-L Take Command". Cancels all trench effects for 1 GE attack. If attacker does not advance into the space, subtract 1 VP.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>33</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Walter Rathenau - Add 1 extra GE RP during the Replacement Phase of every turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>52</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Fall of the Tsar - May only be played if Russian Capitulation marker is in the "Fall of Tsar Allowed" box. Add 1 VP plus an additional 2 VP if RO is still neutral. RU Activation costs 1 OPS per unit, not space, for Combat only.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>53</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>Bolshevik Revolution - May only be played if Russian Capitulation marker is in the "Bolshevik Revolution Allowed" box. No more than 1 RU RP may be spent each turn.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>54</td><td>5</td><td>*</td><td>H-L Take Command - Allows play of "Michel", "Blucher", "Peace Offensive", "Hoffman", and "U-Boats Unleashed". Prevents play of "Place of Execution".</td><td>1</td></tr></tbody></table>











